Add setup documentation (#7)
krlmlr/dm: vignettes/setting_up_dm.Rmd

---
title: "Preparing Your Data"
date: "`r Sys.Date()`"
output: rmarkdown::html_vignette
vignette: >
  %\VignetteIndexEntry{Preparing your data}
  %\VignetteEncoding{UTF-8}
  %\VignetteEngine{knitr::rmarkdown}
editor_options: 
  chunk_output_type: console
---

<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

This document describes how you can get your data into a `dm` object. Though this example is also built in already — just run `cdm_nycflights13()` — here, we'll go through the process step by step.

> The five tables we are working with contain information on flights from airports of the North-American city of New York to other destinations in the United States in 2013 and are available through the package [`nycflights13`](https://github.com/hadley/nycflights13)). `flights` represents the journeys taken by planes, `airlines` includes transport organizations' names (`name`) and their shortcuts (`carrier`), `airports` details the arrival and departure stations, `weater` the meterological context at each hour, while `planes` describes aircrafts' characteristics. Once we've loaded `nycflights13`, the aforementioned tables are all in our work environment, ready for being accessed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The five tables we are working with contain information on flights from airports of the North-American city of New York to other destinations in the United States in 2013 and are available through the package [`nycflights13`](https://github.com/hadley/nycflights13). `flights` represents the journeys taken by planes, `airlines` includes transport organizations' names (`name`) and their shortcuts (`carrier`), `airports` details the arrival and departure stations, `weather` the meterological context at each hour, while `planes` describes the characteristics of the aircrafts. Once we've loaded `nycflights13`, the aforementioned tables are all in our work environment, ready for access.
```

Maybe use bullet points?

```{r}
library(dm)
library(nycflights13)
```

# Adding Tables

First, we will tell `dm` what tables we want to work with and how they're connected. For this, we can use `dm` or `as_dm()`. 

`as_dm()` accepts lists of objects — as of this version, you must explicitly name the objects.

```{r}
flights_dm_no_keys <- as_dm(

>   list(

Reviewer: `tibble::lst()` would auto-name.

    "airlines" = airlines,
    "airports" = airports,
    "flights" = flights,
    "planes" = planes,
    "weather" = weather
  )
)
```

# Defining Keys

Though you now have a new `dm` object, containing all your data, a key detail is missing still: How your five tables are connected the foreign keys) and which column(s) uniquely identify observation (the primary keys).

## Primary Keys

`dm` offers `cdm_enum_pk_candidates()` to identify primary keys and `cdm_add_pk()` to add them. 

```{r}
cdm_enum_pk_candidates(
  dm = flights_dm_no_keys, 
  table = planes
  )
```

Now, add any primary keys you may have identified:

```{r}
flights_dm_only_pks <- flights_dm_no_keys %>%
  cdm_add_pk(table = airlines, column = carrier) %>% 

>   cdm_add_pk(table = airports, column = faa) %>% 

Reviewer: The explicit argument names are useful but also redundant. Maybe use in the first call and omit in the following calls? Same below for foreign keys.

  cdm_add_pk(table = planes, column = tailnum)
flights_dm_only_pks
```

To get an overview of the primary keys after setting them, call `cdm_get_all_pks()`.

```{r}
cdm_get_all_pks(flights_dm_only_pks)
```

## Foreign Keys

```{r}
cdm_enum_fk_candidates(
  dm = flights_dm_only_pks,
  table = flights,
  ref_table = airlines
)
```

> You define how your tables relate using `cdm_add_fk()`. First, define the tables you wish to connect to another using the function's options `table` and `ref_table`. Then indicate in `column` which column of `table` refers to `ref_table`'s primary key, which you've defined above. Use `check = FALSE` to coerce a key. 

Reviewer: I don't understand "coerce". `check = FALSE` omits the consistency checks, ideally we want a notion of weak relationships (#4).

Author: ah I must have misunderstood what it does. Is changed now.
